    Steganography is the term for the family of techniques used for
    hiding information within other information.  Today, it has many real
    world uses, particularly for digital watermarking.

    This program uses a steganographic technique to hide information in
    any text file.  The specific technique used is aimed at writers of
    obfuscated programs for the IOCCC, as the the hidden information is
    encoded in the whitespace in the source file.  As we know, there are
    up to an additional 2048 characters of whitespace available to
    entrants to the IOCCC, so it turns out that this is an ideal place to
    hide things.

    The program as provided is the steganographic decoder.  Rather than
    provide a seperate encoding program, you should not be surprised to
    learn that I opted to steganographically hide the encoder inside the
    decoder.

    Try it out.  Compile the program, then type

    prog < prog.c

    You should see the encoder program displayed.  Now save it, like:

    prog < prog.c > encoder.c

    Then compile encoder.c.  You now have the complete system ready.

    The encoder expects to get a filename as an argument.  This filename
    is the name of the file containing the information to be hidden.  It
    expects the file in which to hide the information to be on the
    standard input, and will output the results on the standard output.

    You can use it like this (assuming you have a file called remarks):

    echo 'Hello, World!' > message
    encoder message < remarks > remarks_msg

    Then to decode:

    prog < remarks_msg
    Hello, World!

    C programs are mostly unaffected by adding steganographic content,
    but it is possible in certain circumstances for whitespace to be
    changed inside strings where it should be left alone.  Plain text
    files are good candidates for hiding information in, but the added
    spacing may render the text somewhat difficult to read.

    This program is obfuscated in a number of ways:

    * The code is all but impossible to read due to the spacing
    * The algorithm is well hidden in the code due to copious red-herrings
    * The long expressions cause indentation tools to give poor results
    * And good old fashioned ternery operators are the icing on the cake

    Compiling the program

    The program (and the encoder program) should compile on any
    reasonable compiler.  In particular, they are known to compile under
    GNU C.
